# Wiki for Customer Churn Analysis

This project was created to predict customer churn. The project pulls data in from various disparate sources, joins them together, and applies data cleansing techniques throughout the flow prior to performing the predictive analysis.
### Quick Links
 - [Customer Churn Flow](flow_zone:default)
 - [master_table_psql](dataset:master_table_psql)
 - [Quick modeling of Target_Churn on model_ready_table](analysis:pTYthXaM)
 - [High Level Insight](dashboard:wCkrgTi)
 - [predict_churn](lambda_service:predict_churn)

### Key Datasets

There are a number of different datasets imported and created within this project. Here is a list of the most frequently used for exploring customer churn.

 - [master_table_psql](dataset:master_table_psql)
 - [account_prepped](dataset:account_prepped)
 - [billing](dataset:billing)
 - [equipment](dataset:equipment)
 - [data_scored_snow](dataset:data_scored_snow)

### Data Analysis

The [master_table_psql](dataset:master_table_psql) dataset serves as our master table for performing Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA). When viewing this table, you are able to view various visualizations and [statistical analysis](statistics_worksheet:qJpCkloDrm). Based on any insight found here, you may perform additional downstream manipulations to the data.

In this project, we leveraged a number of preparation steps to prepare the data for analysis. This was done using low-code and no-code methods. The code nodes are as follows: 

- [compute_master_table_psql_distinct](recipe:compute_master_table_psql_distinct) contains a SQL Recipe for selecting distinct observations and narrowing down the number of variables.
- [compute_modeling_table](recipe:compute_modeling_table) is a Python Code Node for performing coded transformations. This code can be manipulated directly in DSS editor, Jupyter Notebook, or local PyCharm.

### Model Training

Various models were trained and a champion (Random Forest) selected. It is important that the model be continuously monitored to ensure it's performance. Displays the drift metrics for this model. 

- [Prediction (RANDOM_FOREST_CLASSIFICATION) on modeling_table](saved_model:gw2S4e0k)

### Productionalization

The model has been deployed to our production system as an [API endpoint](http://localhost:14000/public/api/v1/predict_churn/predict_churn/predict). This allows the different lines of business to score transactions in real time. Below is an example of the body of the request for generating a prediction from the API endpoint. 
```{
    "features": {
        "Acct_Plan_Type": "Standard",
        "Avg_Talk_Hrs": 1,
        "Acct_Age_Months": 23,
        "Recent_Complaint": "Call Quality",
        "Current_Bill_Range": "0-20",
        "Percent_Incr_MOM": "15.4",
        "Avg_Days_Delinquent": "27",
        "State": "HAWAII",
        "Headset_Age": "9+",
        "Equipment_Age": "9+"
    }
}``` 
